    Once I reached fourteen years of age, I found myself for the fourth time passing 
through a crowded school hallway. Hundreds of other children flooded the hallway 
with a sea of various instruments, all awaiting an uncertain audition judge. To 
distract myself from the immense feeling of anxiety that enveloped my body, I 
whispered to a younger boy next to me in the hall with a cello, ‘What piece are 
you going to perform?’ He answered with a nervous face, “The Swan, by Camille 
Saint-Saëns. You?” ‘Allegro Brillante by William Ten Have,’ I answered nervously. 
I hoped talking with cello-boy would ease my nerves and relieve my anxious solitude. 
However, the storm of anxiety, like always, enveloped my body like how clouds envelop 
the sun.
    Facing the judge in the audition room was never a calming atmosphere, and it never 
got any easier. Piercing eyes watched my every bow stroke, open ears were always on 
alert for my mistakes, and a pencil with paper carefully marked my every move. It was 
the day I dreaded each year since I began playing violin; my least favorite part of the 
music world. This was my final year auditioning for the All County Orchestra. I had 
practiced immensely six months out of the year, drowning my body in an abyss of stress, 
all for a ten-minute audition.
    To my disbelief, I walked into an audition room to discover a small old lady sitting 
with a smile at her desk. It was a most uncommon smile—one that I have been unfamiliar 
with in the music world. After brief introductions, my fingers began moving up and down 
the fingerboard as if possessed. An “A scale” set the tone for my audition piece: Allegro 
Brillante. This time, eyes weren’t piercing at me, but were absorbing the musicality of my 
violin. I relaxed my shoulders, easing my neck pain while forcefully bowing the fast notes 
of the piece. My fingers effortlessly ran a marathon on the fingerboard. It is amazing what 
a kind smile can teach you. 
    Once my audition came to an end with the final task of sight-reading, all I could think 
about was where I would be standing next winter. Would I be pleased with my score and on my 
way to play with the All County Orchestra, or would I be sitting in my school orchestra 
classroom watching other children receive their All County folders? My judge lifted her eyes 
from her note-scribbled paper and said in her sweet disposition, “You will be very pleased my 
dear.” I walked out of that audition room with a feeling that was foreign to my soul. My mind 
raced with both utter confusion and excitement. I debated with myself, Was it enough?


