    The unfamiliarity of this sound intrigued me. My body itched to play its notes. 
Rather than having the nerves of playing the notes right, my heart was beating with 
joy. However, before I could bask in the delight of this sound, I was tasked to 
perform “Toreador” in the all-feared violin seat audition. Unlike many of my past 
seat auditions, I was not filled with the same level of anxiety. For the first time, 
I was curious; curious to hear “Toreador” as an ensemble and learn its various dynamics. 
This wooden door to the audition was not a door to my doom, but rather an entrance to 
fulfillment and curiosity. With a relaxed wrist and a deep breath, the melody of “Toreador” 
sang from my violin. When I imagine this particular moment, I can not recall who or what 
the judges looked like. I could’ve cared less if their eyes were piercing through my soul 
or if they were scratching down my every move. In this audition, I was numb to judgment. 
Rather, my eyes were having a staring contest with the bold-printed notes on the page. 
“Toreador” was a curiosity, not an audition assignment. 
    The long-awaited day of the All County Concert arrived with the shuffling of music 
cases. Lined up backstage dressed from head to toe in concert dress, the various sections 
of instruments proudly stood awaiting the grand audience’s applause. The concert hall greeted 
me with its high ceilings and warm lights—a warm welcome. Sitting towards the right side of 
the stage, I was surrounded by a sea of various singing instruments. The majority of our 
performance consisted of Shostakovich, Bruch, and finally, Bizet. I could feel the anticipation 
of Carmen Overture building at the end of Shostakovich’s fourteenth Symphonia. 
    Staring at my stand partner James, our fingers pressed the first notes of Carmen Overture. 
Feeling my curiosity heightening, we moved quickly. Page one: turn. Page 2: turn. Page 3: pause. 
The first few notes of “Toreador” awaited our next move. I vividly remember looking up from my 
music stand, my violin clenched in hand, and all eyes waiting for our conductor’s fortissimo cue. 
With the forceful drop of our conductor's arms, the entire orchestra played the exact same 
staccato notes: ensemblée: Together at the same time. The woodwinds chirped like birds, the 
strings called out to the hall, and the drums solidified the steady marching tempo. We were 
all different sections of instruments united as one symphony, speaking the same musical language. 
The theme of “Toreador” rang throughout the hall with a clear flow of fast and slow notes. My 
ears were soothed and my heart was alive with this musical sound. We found our eyes focused on 
each other when playing rather than the notes on the music sheets. It was a moment that captured 
everyone’s faces in the hall. We were all one, united as one symphony. 

