    While trying out instruments with Mr. Kelly and Mr. Movie Star that day in the 
third grade, I was immediately drawn to a string instrument that lay still on the 
desk: a violin. From the moment that I first held this curious piece of wood, I was 
intrigued by its foreign beauty. The gloss coated its body like the glaze of a smooth 
ice skating rink. The fine tuners held the four metal strings an inch apart. Each 
string was complemented by the lettered name of a note like my grandpa’s mandolin. 
The bow held finely thinned horse hair on its underside. But the fingerboard was 
different. Yes, the fingerboard was like a blank sheet of paper—an unwritten story. 
    After teaching me how to hold the violin under my chin and how to pluck its strings, 
Mr. Kelly asked me, “Have you ever played the violin before?” I responded hesitantly, 
“No. But I have played the mandolin a few times.” Mr. Kelly smiled and said, “Ah, the 
mandolin has the same strings as the violin. The only difference is that the violin is 
played with a bow.” I picked up the bow and stared at it intently. “Can I try bowing a 
note?” I asked him. “Yes, please do,” said Mr. Kelly. At that moment, I wasn’t worried 
about the noise the instrument would make. I wasn’t even worried about holding the bow 
right. It just felt natural, as if I had done it before. Looking back on this memory, 
I often wonder if I had been a classical musician in a past life. When trying something 
new, the feeling is supposed to <i>feel</i> new. Bowing the violin for the first time didn’t 
feel new. It was as if my muscles already knew how to play and I was waking up in a 
familiar world. 
    I played a big “open A” and then placed one finger down on the string to play a “B.” 
Suddenly, Mr. Kelly’s eyebrows were glued to the top of his forehead. He walked over to 
his desk and picked up a book entitled “Essential Elements for Strings: A Beginner’s Guide 
to Violin.” Quickly, he flipped through the pages and landed on a short few measures of 
notes. The excerpt was entitled “Jupiter” from Gustav Holst’s symphony <i>The Planets</i>. With 
excitement rising in his voice, Mr. Kelly stated the names of each note and directed me 
where to place my fingers on the fingerboard. After three attempts of bowing these slow 
notes, I had played the entire excerpt. I didn’t quite understand how many beats each of 
these notes were at first. Nevertheless, the notes sounded triumphant. It was as if the 
notes were telling the story of a squire being knighted by a king—his head bowed down in 
honor with the heavens smiling above. 


